---
title: Why blog?
date: 2017-07-15 00:00:00 Z
tags: [blog, productivity, jekyll]
catagories: [blog, productivity, jekyll]
layout: post
excerpt: A series of arguments for why you should keep a blog.
comments: true
---
#### Summery
The goal of this post is to convince you and (myself) that it's a good idea to
spend time and effort on keeping a blog like this one.

The sections below presents arguments for why you should keep a blog.
This post is written as if I were the audience, so if you're not a developer
that also likes to teach, the arguments may not convince you.


#### Stop repeating yourself:
The main idea behind this blog is to gather answers to the most common questions
I receive from studetens. The number of times I've bin asked how I configure my
terminal, what editor I use etc.

Instead of answering the same question multiple times, write a blog post and
link to it.


#### Explaining implies understanding :
I find that one of the best ways to learn some new concept or framework is
explaining it to some one else. If you can write a great explantionen of a
subject you understand it, It's easier to reason about a subject and asking
_why is like that?_, when trying to construct an argument that should convince
somebody else.


#### The mystery reader:
The argument for writing ideas down also work for a personal journal, keeping a
public blog introduces the mystery that anybody could be reading.

While I do use google analytics and thus know a little about you dear reader,
knowing that former or current students, friends, colleagues or employers
could be reading forces a different language and more deliberate wording.


#### Share the love
A progammer troubleshooting a problem or researching a subject often ends up on
some other programmers blog. The amount of problems I solved with the help of
other bloggers are countless. Give back and post your findings, who knows one
day your next google search might lead you back to your own blog.


#### Write better gode
Knowing that I'll write a "[project](http://rotendahl.dk/projects/)" post
about my code means that I'll write more clean code and document the code
propbly. Putting the code on github with a great readme is a given, but it's
purpose is explaining how it works, not why it was built and which
considerations went into the project.


#### Blogging rules
It's your blog and you decide the format, here are a few guidelines i use.

* Don't spend to much time proofreading. If you aim to make each post perfect
you will write less. The content should be good, but the presentation can bear
a few spelling errors.

* Theres is no pressure to post, write when you feel like it and have time.

* Share the posts when the solve problems otherwise, keep quiet. Don't broadcast
links to your blog unless you actually believe that the post could solve
their problem, or that they'll find it interesting. This rule means that your
audience will always be interested in what you write and you don't have to
write as a sales pitch for attention.

* Keep it short and always include [relevant](http://jekyllrb.com)
[links](http://jekyllthemes.org)
